[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as the leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
to help you be a better b2b marketer
never miss an episode by subscribing on
Apple podcasts now let's get started
[Music]
good morning from Portland again yes
being super chilly lately and rainy and
it's cold my husband was like hey does
it matter to you you're always seems
like working anyway true true but who
doesn't like rays of sunshine shining
through the window okay while I was
waiting for the Sun I receive an email
from Kate in her email she mentioned
that she has been an account manager for
several companies she started as a
Senior Account Manager with a new
company about a year ago from her
perspective in that role she has
identified a large gap especially in
marketing and sales collaboration so her
manager asked her to create a new role
to address these gaps she read my book
and loved it Thank You Kate thank you so
much she wanted to have a chat to
discuss how to better define her new job
well first of all Kate congratulations
it's wonderful that your manager asked
you to define your own new role that's a
true endorsement it says your being
doing a fantastic job and you earned
enough of his or her trust so that you
can write your own Job Description kudos
to you my friend
kudos so here's the proach I told Kay to
take so that she can create a win-win
Job Description not just for her but
also for her group giving that Cades
being with the company for over a year
as a cow manager she knows where she's
having trouble getting support from
marketing and what she can do to guide
marketing and other internal
stakeholders to better address the
scaps I suggested that she do a quick 30
minutes exercise on her own and this is
what she should do
she needs to answer one question one
question say in a perfect world if she
could wave a magic wand to get any
support from marketing okay and you
support from marketing that she needs
what would that look like
I told her to ride none stop for 15
minutes about anything that comes to her
mind all right so that's the first step
then spend the remaining 15 minutes
reading the list out loud edit and
refine the list to identify the areas
that she won't the marketing well owned
and others that they will need to work
together on now now she has a rough
description of the sales enablement job
okay we're gonna set that aside kind of
like cooking you know I you prepare it
for like a portion of the dishes and
then you will set that aside and then
you will do something else all right
step number two what is step number two
the step number two is to interview
stakeholders such as marketing inside
sales outside sales and even the product
development team ask them if they were a
sales enablement role within a company
what do they think that bro should do
it's better to talk to them rather than
having say a quick email exchange with
zoom Google Hangouts GoToMeeting and
even Microsoft teams it's very easy to
do virtual conferencing put your headset
on turn on the camera and have a great
chat with your internal stakeholders the
reality is that they will give her a
laundry list which will need to be pared
down therefore is important at the end
of that conversation or each
conversation with your internal
stakeholder to ask them to prioritize
and give her a top three just three what
are the top three things that they would
like to see a cell
enablement manager do the benefit of
talking to stakeholders is so that the
job description is not created in a silo
plus they may identify some things that
Cade didn't even think about imagine
that all right the next step
Kate can compare her list with internal
teams priorities this will help her
write a second draft of the Job
Description
and out of that draft she can also
identify what she won't do to set
expectations of friends and ensure that
everyone everyone is on the same page
and here's one more tip in addition to
getting the job description right I told
Kate for a new role like this
she needs to identify one big initiative
and a several quick wins from the start
the quick wins a low-hanging fruit that
she can achieve to show success and
build traction a big initiative is
likely to take several months or a year
to complete and involved engage with
internal stakeholders most importantly
here's his big trick she can use the big
initiative to request budget and a head
count and start building her own team if
you ever had a chance to write your own
job description I suggest you try this
approach and see if it works for you
again if you like this podcast b2b
marketing and more with Pam dinner
please subscribe on Apple podcasts if
you'd like to watch videos no problem
check out my youtube channel simply by
typing Pam that nerd you'll find my
channel and subscribe please for any
questions you know where to find me and
send them my weight in the meantime
please be well and I will talk to you
next week
take care
if you enjoyed this podcast please share
it with your colleagues and leave a
review on Apple podcasts
[Music]